[Term Entry] Command line Bash: Associative Arrays (#6319)
Codecademy/docs: content/command-line/concepts/bash/terms/associative-arrays/associative-arrays.md

---
Title: 'Associative Arrays'
Description: 'Stores and retrieves data using key-value pairs in Bash scripts'
Subjects:
  - 'Bash/Shell'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Arrays'
  - 'Bash'
  - 'Data Structures'

>   - 'Scripting'

Reviewer: We don't have Bash and scripting tags

CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-the-command-line'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> **Associative arrays** in Bash are key-value pair data structures that allows to store and retrieve values using unique keys instead of numeric indices. First introduced in Bash version 4, they provide a powerful way to organize and manipulate data in shell scripts.

Reviewer: Add a backlink to data structures

> **Associative arrays** in Bash are key-value pair data structures that allows to store and retrieve values using unique keys instead of numeric indices. First introduced in Bash version 4, they provide a powerful way to organize and manipulate data in shell scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Associative arrays** in Bash are key-value pair data structures that allow users to store and retrieve values using unique keys instead of numeric indices. First introduced in Bash version 4, they provide a powerful way to organize and manipulate data in shell scripts.
```

- `${array_name[key]}`: Retrieves the value associated with a specific key.
- `${!array_name[@]}`: Returns all keys in the array.
- `${array_name[@]}`: Returns all values in the array.
- `unset array_name[key]`: Removes a specific key-value pair from the array.
- `unset array_name`: Deletes the entire array.

**Return value:**

Associative arrays return the values associated with the specified keys when accessed.

## Example 1: Creating and populating basic associative arrays

The following example demonstrates how to declare and initialize an associative array in Bash:

```bash
# Declare an associative array
declare -A user_details

# Add key-value pairs
user_details[name]="John Doe"
user_details[email]="john@example.com"
user_details[age]=30
user_details[role]="Developer"

# Print a specific value
echo "Name: ${user_details[name]}"

# Print all keys
echo "Available information: ${!user_details[@]}"

# Print all values
echo "User details: ${user_details[@]}"
```

The output will be as follows:

```shell
Name: John Doe
Available information: name email role age
User details: John Doe john@example.com Developer 30
```

> In this example, we create an associative array called `user_details` and add various information about a user. The keys are strings (`'name'`, `'email'`, `'age'`, `'role'`), and we can access specific values using those keys.

Reviewer: Avoid using first and second-person pronouns, i.e. "I", "we", and "you".
